I love summer. It’s a wonderful time. Sunny days and long warm evenings, when you can walk with your friends in parks and talk about everything. Blue sky, green trees, many flowers of different colours – what a pleasure to see a beauty of nature!
My summer holidays were rich with events. There were trips, new acquaintances and bright impressions! I’d like to tell you about the most exciting trip of the summer. It was the trip to the Carpathians.
I like the Carpathians because it’s such a beautiful place. There are mountains covered by spruce forests, blue lakes, meadows and turbulent mountain rivers. The wild beauty of the nature there fascinates you once and forever!
I went to a children’s English summer camp in Bukovel. Bukovel is situated in a valley surrounded by mountains. It’s a very nice place with fabulous views and fresh mountain air. Bukovel is the most popular Ukrainian ski resort in winter, but many people don’t imagine how fantastic this place can be in summer.
In the English summer camp you can improve your knowledge of English in an easy and natural way, communicating with teachers who are native speakers. In addition, we had many fun activities outdoors. We went hiking in the mountains, took part in different games, played tennis, football, basketball, rode mountain bikes, and swam in the deep blue lake. Besides, we had a swimming pool there, so there was no time to be bored. Also we had bus excursions to Yaremche and Vorokhta.
The most memorable event was climbing Hoverla, the highest peak in the Ukrainian Carpathians and in Ukraine in general. Its height is 2061 m above sea level. I think that many people in Ukraine dream to reach the summit of the highest mountain of Ukraine. It was my dream, too, so I was looking forward to this trip.
The weather in the Hoverla region is very changeable. In the morning, when we started our climbing, the weather was fine, but then it changed very fast and suddenly several times. We experienced heavy showers, a thunderstorm, lightning, and even hail. In one moment, the weather was so bad that we asked ourselves whether we really should continue. Maybe, we should go back? We discussed the situation and decided to proceed anyway.
After three hours of difficult paths, there we were on top of Hoverla! We had done it! I was so happy! I will never forget this breathtaking moment.
I had a good time in the English summer camp and I think my English got better. I made many friends there, and I hope we’ll communicate also in future. So I think my summer holifays were very successful.